[20:06] <Karol_Szczepanski> Meeting: Hydra W3C Community Group Conference Call
[20:06] <Karol_Szczepanski> Chair: Karol Szczepanski
[20:07] <Karol_Szczepanski> Agenda: https://www.w3.org/community/hydra/wiki/Conference_Calls#2019-05-14
[20:07] <Karol_Szczepanski> present+ Karol_Szczepanski
[20:07] <Karol_Szczepanski> present+ tpluskiewicz
[20:08] == serialseb [~serialseb@public.cloak] has joined #hydra
[20:08] <Karol_Szczepanski> present+ serialseb
[20:08] <Karol_Szczepanski> Scribe: Karol_Szczepanski
[20:08] <Karol_Szczepanski> Topic: API Examples
[20:10] <Karol_Szczepanski> Karol_Szczepanski: there are no PRs pending
[20:10] <Karol_Szczepanski> tpluskiewicz: I wanted to keep track on the progress
[20:10] <Karol_Szczepanski> tpluskiewicz: wanted to propose implementing stuff on top of the API examples
[20:10] <Karol_Szczepanski> tpluskiewicz: finished stuff on the front end, generic app that I maintain
[20:11] <Karol_Szczepanski> tpluskiewicz: Sebastian, did you have a chance to take a peek on the examples?
[20:11] <Karol_Szczepanski> seriaLseb: I'm happy to review it
[20:11] <Karol_Szczepanski> seriaLseb: working on server implementation with .net server
[20:12] <Karol_Szczepanski> tpluskiewicz: did you have any thoughts on making api examples a repository useful for yourself
[20:13] <Karol_Szczepanski> tpluskiewicz: following a slack chat you'd be best source of feedback
[20:14] <Karol_Szczepanski> serialseb: we tried to follow the examples with the heracles client
[20:14] <Karol_Szczepanski> serialseb: there were examples with divergence, that were not compatible with collections, items
[20:14] <Karol_Szczepanski> serialseb: I'm happy going through the examples to understand whole topic
[20:15] <Karol_Szczepanski> tpluskiewicz: actions are relatively new
[20:15] <Karol_Szczepanski> Karol_Szczepanski: actions didn't make it trough to the espec
[20:17] <Karol_Szczepanski> serialseb: we've got a live API that uses operations
[20:18] <Karol_Szczepanski> Karol_Szczepanski: I'd love to help you with whatever needs you have related with hydra that your customer needs
[20:20] <Karol_Szczepanski> Karol_Szczepanski: there is some .net implementation I've made some time ago
[20:20] <Karol_Szczepanski> tpluskiewicz: also I did create a nancy module for hydra
[20:21] <Karol_Szczepanski> tpluskiewicz: there are two clients in JS so we can discover possible ways of using it
[20:22] <Karol_Szczepanski> serialseb: some implementation workshop would come in handy
[20:23] <Karol_Szczepanski> serialseb: is it worht of keeping several examples in same repo or to have a separate one?
[20:24] <Karol_Szczepanski> Karol_Szczepanski: we've agreed on having multiple API in one example repo
[20:26] <Karol_Szczepanski> serialseb: there are some broken things in hydra, but entrypoint, documentation and collections I have implemented
[20:26] <Karol_Szczepanski> serialseb: there are some purchase actions on some collections
[20:27] <Karol_Szczepanski> ACTION: serialseb would share some API examples of his own
[20:27] * RRSAgent records action 1
[20:29] <Karol_Szczepanski> tpluskiewicz: we shall create some issues to havae a backlog for future API examples
[20:29] <Karol_Szczepanski> Topic: Resolve pull request #185
[20:30] <Karol_Szczepanski> https://github.com/HydraCG/Specifications/pull/185
[20:32] <Karol_Szczepanski> Karol_Szczepanski: I'd love to have it merged ASAP as this PR sits there for some time
[20:35] <Karol_Szczepanski> Karol_Szczepanski: we agreed on not moving toward any more complicated header constructs, thus only xsd:string sits in the terms
[20:35] <Karol_Szczepanski> tpluskiewicz: I din't look at this one recently
[20:36] <Karol_Szczepanski> tpluskiewicz: but I agree xsd:string is fine now, there shouldn't be any problem with having more detailed values in future
[20:37] <Karol_Szczepanski> Topic: Discuss rdfs:range issue #192
[20:37] <Karol_Szczepanski> https://github.com/HydraCG/Specifications/issues/192
[20:39] <Karol_Szczepanski> serialseb: we're implementing rdfs:ranges on our side
[20:39] <Karol_Szczepanski> serialseb: it's a local vocabulary
[20:40] <Karol_Szczepanski> serialseb: we've redefined context to have the payload look like a pure JSON
[20:42] <serialseb> https://my.api.whenfresh.com/catalog/browse/Building/Design
[20:45] <Karol_Szczepanski> tpluskiewicz: maybe Karol's statement on having MAY in first point I proposed is not that bad
[20:46] <Karol_Szczepanski> tpluskiewicz: if taking into account Sebastiens approach
[20:47] <Karol_Szczepanski> I barely here you Tomasz :(
[20:51] <Karol_Szczepanski> serialseb: we're dynamicaly compiling serializers, we're linking documents
[20:52] <Karol_Szczepanski> serialseb: this is for pure performance purposes
[20:52] <Karol_Szczepanski> serialseb: there is no JSON-LD in the backend - we cannot have it at the moment due to performance
[20:52] <Karol_Szczepanski> serialseb: whole communication is with pure JSON and context linked
[20:55] <serialseb> http://docs.api.whenfresh.com/docs/guides/http/getting-postal-addresses-for-a-postcode/index.html
[20:55] <tpluskiewicz> https://github.com/HydraCG/Specifications/pull/132
[20:56] <Karol_Szczepanski> Topic: hydra:manages
[20:56] <Karol_Szczepanski> https://github.com/HydraCG/Specifications/issues/126
[21:04] <Karol_Szczepanski> ACTION: tpluskiewicz adds a proper statement in the spec on how to undestand manages block
[21:04] * RRSAgent records action 2
