<!doctype html>
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
  <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
  <title>Telecon Minutes for 2019-01-28 | Hydra W3C Community Group</title>
  <meta name="twitter:card" content="summary">
  <meta name="twitter:site:id" content="1524709850">
  <meta name="twitter:creator:id" content="64360611">
  <meta name="twitter:description" content="Hydra simplifies the development of interoperable, hypermedia-driven Web APIs">
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="http://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Exo:400,700">
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="http://yui.yahooapis.com/pure/0.5.0/pure-min.css">
  <!--[if lte IE 8]>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="http://yui.yahooapis.com/pure/0.5.0/grids-responsive-old-ie-min.css">
  <![endif]-->
  <!--[if gt IE 8]><!-->
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="http://yui.yahooapis.com/pure/0.5.0/grids-responsive-min.css">
  <!--<![endif]-->
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="/css/styles.css">
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="/css/minute-styles.css">
  <!--<![endif]-->
</head>
<body>
  <div class="header">
      <div class="home-menu pure-menu pure-menu-open pure-menu-horizontal pure-menu-fixed">
          <span class="pure-menu-heading"><a href="/"><img src="/img/logo.svg" alt="Hydra"></a></span>
          <ul>
              <li><a href="/#specifications">Specifications</a></li>
              <li><a href="/#community">Community</a></li>
              <li><a href="/#tooling">Tooling</a></li>
              <li><a href="/minutes/">Minutes</a></li>
          </ul>
      </div>
  </div>

  <div class="content">
      <div class="pure-g">
          <div class="l-box pure-u-1">
              <h1>Hydra W3C Community Group Telecon</h1>
              <h2>Minutes for 2019-01-28</h2>
              <div class="summary">
                  <dl>
                      <dt>Agenda</dt>
                      <dd><a href="https://www.w3.org/community/hydra/wiki/Conference_Calls#2019-01-28">https://www.w3.org/community/hydra/wiki/Conference_Calls#2019-01-28</a></dd>
                      <dt>Topics</dt>
                      <dd><ol>
                         <li><a href="#topic-1">Brief update on actions from last call</a>
                         <li><a href="#topic-2">Discuss open Pull Requests</a>
                         <li><a href="#topic-3">Hydra logo licensing</a>
                         <li><a href="#topic-4">Extending vocabulary with explicit actions</a>
                      </ol></dd>
                      <dt>Chair</dt>
                      <dd>Karol Szczepański</dd>
                      <dt>Scribe</dt>
                      <dd>Karol Szczepański</dd>
                      <dt>Present</dt>
                      <dd>Karol Szczepański, Tomasz Pluskiewicz</dd>
                      <dt>Audio Log</dt>
                      <dd>
                        <audio controls="controls" preload="none">
                            <source src="audio.mp3" type="audio/mpeg" />
                            Warning: Your browser does not support the HTML5 audio element,
                            please upgrade.<br>
                            <a href="audio.mp3">audio.mp3</a>
                        </audio>
                      </dd>
                  </dl>
              </div>
              <div class="comment"><span class="name">Karol Szczepański</span>: Meeting: Hydra W3C Community Group Conference Call</div>
              <div class="information">Karol Szczepański is scribing.</div>
              
              <h1 id="topic-1" class="topic">Topic: Brief update on actions from last call</h1>
              <div class="information">first thing was assigned to Lorenzo of finding adventages and disadventages of going with OS organization</div>
              <div class="information">there was a discussion on slack</div>
              <div class="information">maybe an alternative was to organize within GSOC team rather than hydra one</div>
              <div class="comment"><span class="name">Karol Szczepański</span>:  without any knowledge of implications and requirements I'm fine with status quo</div>
              <div class="comment"><span class="name">Tomasz Pluskiewicz</span>:  topic should be postponed then</div>
              <div class="information">second item was assigned to Rube</div>
              <div class="information">about a brief agenda of the meeting about the future of hydra and hypermedia</div>
              <div class="comment"><span class="name">Karol Szczepański</span>:  for me the brief is quite poor, lacks some details on possible take-aways</div>
              <div class="information">Brecht: maybe we should raise an issue in GH to put ideas for the meeting's agenda</div>
              <div class="information">third item was assigned to Karol, migration of the TPF repos to separate one within HydraCG</div>
              <div class="comment"><span class="name">Karol Szczepański</span>:  I've failed to do anything due to inproper access levels to GH</div>
              <div class="comment"><span class="name">Karol Szczepański</span>:  we're stuck with Markus not providing elevated priviledges</div>
              <div class="information">fourth item was assigned to Tomasz, describe on how to proceed with PR's</div>
              <div class="comment"><span class="name">Tomasz Pluskiewicz</span>:  I didn't setup any proposal for now</div>
              <div class="comment"><span class="name">Tomasz Pluskiewicz</span>:  we'd like to move call for consensus to GH so more people will leave feedback in more formal way</div>
              <div class="comment"><span class="name">Karol Szczepański</span>:  there are several PRs waiting so I called people on the mailing list to leave any feedback</div>
              <div class="comment"><span class="name">Karol Szczepański</span>:  we'll merge those this week</div>
              <div class="comment"><span class="name">Tomasz Pluskiewicz</span>:  People voted for changes on mailing list, but these were not reflected on the GH</div>
              
              <h1 id="topic-2" class="topic">Topic: Discuss open Pull Requests</h1>
              
              <h1 id="topic-3" class="topic">Topic: Hydra logo licensing</h1>
              <div class="information">Logo is under Markus' ownership</div>
              <div class="information">There are two ways: Markus agrees to give the logo for more permitive licence</div>
              <div class="information">or we're going with new logo</div>
              <div class="information">Brech: we could go with new one</div>
              <div class="comment"><span class="name">Tomasz Pluskiewicz</span>:  there are plenty of pepole oht there, maybe someone could create one for free for us</div>
              <div class="comment"><span class="name">Karol Szczepański</span>:  is the name licencsed as well</div>
              <div class="comment"><span class="name">Tomasz Pluskiewicz</span>:  we could rename issue in GH to more generic, related to hydra trademark</div>
              <div class="comment"><span class="name">Tomasz Pluskiewicz</span>:  the licence says only that hydra mark and logo are owned by Markus</div>
              <div class="comment"><span class="name">Tomasz Pluskiewicz</span>:  it's to vauge</div>
              
              <h1 id="topic-4" class="topic">Topic: Extending vocabulary with explicit actions</h1>
              <div class="comment"><span class="name">Karol Szczepański</span>:  there are some areas that hydra needs extenions and I was working on my vision of these extensions</div>
              <div class="comment"><span class="name">Karol Szczepański</span>:  i.e. strongly typed collections, API documentations, non-RDF payloads</div>
              <div class="comment"><span class="name">Tomasz Pluskiewicz</span>:  examples talks, we shall have request-response pairs illustrating attempts of doing stuff with hydra</div>
              <div class="comment"><span class="name">Tomasz Pluskiewicz</span>: without any tooling it won't work as well</div>
              <div class="comment"><span class="name">Tomasz Pluskiewicz</span>:  are there any hydra-enabled software you're developing in Ghent?</div>
              <div class="information">Comunica</div>
              <div class="information">Brecht: there is the Comunica</div>
              <div class="comment"><span class="name">Tomasz Pluskiewicz</span>:  there is implementation in PHP</div>
              <div class="comment"><span class="name">Tomasz Pluskiewicz</span>:  i've asked creators for feedback</div>
              <div class="comment"><span class="name">Tomasz Pluskiewicz</span>:  API-Platform.com</div>
              <div class="comment"><span class="name">Tomasz Pluskiewicz</span>: <a href="https://api-platform.com">https://api-platform.com</a></div>
              <div class="comment"><span class="name">Tomasz Pluskiewicz</span>:  could Comunica come with any feedback?</div>
          </div>
      </div>
  </div>
</body>
</html>