[19:59] <Karol_Szczepanski> Meeting: Hydra W3C Community Group Conference Call
[19:59] <Karol_Szczepanski> Chair: Karol Szczepa≈Ñski
[19:59] == tpluskiewicz [~tpluskiewicz@public.cloak] has joined #hydra
[20:00] <Karol_Szczepanski> Agenda: https://www.w3.org/community/hydra/wiki/Conference_Calls#2019-01-28
[20:00] <Karol_Szczepanski> present+ Karol_Szczepanski
[20:00] <Karol_Szczepanski> present+ brechtvdv
[20:00] <Karol_Szczepanski> present+ tpluskiewicz
[20:05] <Karol_Szczepanski> Scribe: Karol_Szczepanski
[20:05] <Karol_Szczepanski> Topic: Brief update on actions from last call
[20:06] <Karol_Szczepanski> first thing was assigned to Lorenzo of finding adventages and disadventages of going with OS organization
[20:07] <Karol_Szczepanski> there was a discussion on slack
[20:07] <Karol_Szczepanski> maybe an alternative was to organize within GSOC team rather than hydra one
[20:08] <Karol_Szczepanski> Karol: without any knowledge of implications and requirements I'm fine with status quo
[20:08] <Karol_Szczepanski> Tomasz: topic should be postponed then
[20:09] <Karol_Szczepanski> second item was assigned to Rube
[20:10] <Karol_Szczepanski> about a brief agenda of the meeting about the future of hydra and hypermedia
[20:11] <Karol_Szczepanski> Karol: for me the brief is quite poor, lacks some details on possible take-aways
[20:13] <Karol_Szczepanski> Brecht: maybe we should raise an issue in GH to put ideas for the meeting's agenda
[20:15] <Karol_Szczepanski> third item was assigned to Karol, migration of the TPF repos to separate one within HydraCG
[20:15] <Karol_Szczepanski> Karol: I've failed to do anything due to inproper access levels to GH
[20:16] <Karol_Szczepanski> Karol: we're stuck with Markus not providing elevated priviledges
[20:17] <Karol_Szczepanski> fourth item was assigned to Tomasz, describe on how to proceed with PR's
[20:18] <Karol_Szczepanski> Tomasz: I didn't setup any proposal for now
[20:20] <Karol_Szczepanski> Tomasz: we'd like to move call for consensus to GH so more people will leave feedback in more formal way
[20:21] <Karol_Szczepanski> Karol: there are several PRs waiting so I called people on the mailing list to leave any feedback
[20:21] <Karol_Szczepanski> Karol: we'll merge those this week
[20:21] <Karol_Szczepanski> Tomasz: People voted for changes on mailing list, but these were not reflected on the GH
[20:22] <Karol_Szczepanski> Topic: Discuss open Pull Requests
[20:24] <Karol_Szczepanski> Topic: Hydra logo licensing
[20:26] <Karol_Szczepanski> Logo is under Markus' ownership
[20:26] <Karol_Szczepanski> There are two ways: Markus agrees to give the logo for more permitive licence
[20:26] <Karol_Szczepanski> or we're going with new logo
[20:27] <Karol_Szczepanski> Brech: we could go with new one
[20:27] <Karol_Szczepanski> Tomasz: there are plenty of pepole oht there, maybe someone could create one for free for us
[20:28] <Karol_Szczepanski> Karol: is the name licencsed as well
[20:28] <Karol_Szczepanski> Tomasz: we could rename issue in GH to more generic, related to hydra trademark
[20:30] <Karol_Szczepanski> Tomasz: the licence says only that hydra mark and logo are owned by Markus
[20:31] <Karol_Szczepanski> Tomasz: it's to vauge
[20:33] <Karol_Szczepanski> Topic: Extending vocabulary with explicit actions
[20:36] <Karol_Szczepanski> Karol: there are some areas that hydra needs extenions and I was working on my vision of these extensions
[20:36] <Karol_Szczepanski> Karol: i.e. strongly typed collections, API documentations, non-RDF payloads
[20:37] <Karol_Szczepanski> Tomasz: examples talks, we shall have request-response pairs illustrating attempts of doing stuff with hydra
[20:39] <Karol_Szczepanski> Tomasz:without any tooling it won't work as well
[20:43] <Karol_Szczepanski> Tomasz: are there any hydra-enabled software you're developing in Ghent?
[20:43] <brechtvdv> Comunica
[20:43] <Karol_Szczepanski> Brecht: there is the Comunica
[20:44] <Karol_Szczepanski> Tomasz: there is implementation in PHP
[20:44] <Karol_Szczepanski> Tomasz: i've asked creators for feedback
[20:45] <Karol_Szczepanski> Tomasz: API-Platform.com
[20:45] <tpluskiewicz> https://api-platform.com
[20:47] <Karol_Szczepanski> Tomasz: could Comunica come with any feedback?
