[20:00] <markus> Agenda: https://www.w3.org/community/hydra/wiki/Conference_Calls
[20:01] <elf-pavlik> present+ elf-pavlik
[20:02] * elf-pavlik ping bergi https://www.uberconference.com/hydra-cg
[20:03] <markus> Scribe: elf-pavlik
[20:03] <markus> Topic: Discuss Karol's PRs #113 #114 #115 #116 #117
[20:03] <elf-pavlik> present+ karol-szczepanski
[20:03] <elf-pavlik> present+ tpluskiewicz
[20:04] <elf-pavlik> markus: thank you karol-szczepanski for your PRs
[20:04] <elf-pavlik> karol-szczepanski: i consider them ready and they stay open for discussion
[20:04] <elf-pavlik> ... i plan to craft couple more PRs
[20:05] <elf-pavlik> ... i already took into account all the comments which i received in first few days
[20:05] <elf-pavlik> ... so far no one reviewed #117
[20:05] <elf-pavlik> markus: I would be fine with merging those already reviewed
[20:05] <tpluskiewicz> q+
[20:05] * Zakim sees tpluskiewicz on the speaker queue
[20:06] <elf-pavlik> ... good job karol-szczepanski
[20:06] <markus> zakim, ack
[20:06] <Zakim> I don't understand 'ack', markus
[20:06] <markus> ack
[20:06] <elf-pavlik> tpluskiewicz: agrees, merge them (those which received review)
[20:06] <elf-pavlik> ... later we can follow up with more PRs proposing changes
[20:06] <markus> zakim, ack tpluskiewicz
[20:06] <Zakim> I see no one on the speaker queue
[20:06] <elf-pavlik> +1
[20:07] <elf-pavlik> tpluskiewicz: i will prepare PRs when I see need to change something, this may make it easier to manage
[20:07] <elf-pavlik> markus: should we vote on merging first 3 PRs?
[20:08] <markus> PROPOSAL: Merge PR #113, #114, and #115
[20:08] <elf-pavlik> +1
[20:08] <markus> +1
[20:08] <tpluskiewicz> +1
[20:08] <karol-szczepanski> +!
[20:08] <markus> RESOLVED: Merge PR #113, #114, and #115
[20:08] <elf-pavlik> markus: I'll go ahead and merge them after the telecon
[20:09] <elf-pavlik> ... other one's just need review on github or we should discuss something now?
[20:09] <elf-pavlik> karol-szczepanski: i would prefer to get some proper review on github
[20:09] <elf-pavlik> markus: how this will drive further actions?
[20:10] <elf-pavlik> ... we have some use cases and should discuss which of them current spec already covers
[20:10] <elf-pavlik> ... regarding client development, i don't have time myself but if someone want to spearhead it I welcome it very much
[20:11] <elf-pavlik> karol-szczepanski: one of your comments on PR, related to you preference of generic Use Cases
[20:11] <elf-pavlik> ... all UC which I created were more specific
[20:11] <elf-pavlik> ... I see benefits in working with more specific use cases
[20:12] <elf-pavlik> ... they can lead to solutions to real specific problems
[20:12] <elf-pavlik> markus: to clarify, i didn't mean to do all generic, other ones seamed to have generic use cases on just one i commented on had specific one
[20:13] <elf-pavlik> q+
[20:13] * Zakim sees elf-pavlik on the speaker queue
[20:13] <elf-pavlik> karol-szczepanski: I think about more use cases
[20:13] <elf-pavlik> ... getting deeper some Use Cases would stay specific for particular domains
[20:13] <elf-pavlik> ... eg. calendars
[20:14] <elf-pavlik> ... generic UCs could miss some cases
[20:14] <elf-pavlik> markus: what do you think about what i proposed, to have generic use case and for it specific ones
[20:14] <elf-pavlik> q-
[20:14] * Zakim sees no one on the speaker queue
[20:14] <elf-pavlik> ... we can make new PRs for that
[20:14] <tpluskiewicz> +1 on future PRs to add generic UC descriptions
[20:15] <elf-pavlik> +1
[20:15] <elf-pavlik> markus: people reading it may get impression that it only covers those specific UCs
[20:16] <elf-pavlik> ... having generic UCs mentioned can prevent that
[20:16] <elf-pavlik> markus: would you like to discuss some of the UCs ?
[20:16] <tpluskiewicz> q+
[20:16] * Zakim sees tpluskiewicz on the speaker queue
[20:16] <elf-pavlik> ... it doesn't seem that Ruben will join so we shouldn't discuss arch diagram
[20:16] <markus> zakim, ack tpluskiewicz
[20:16] <Zakim> I see no one on the speaker queue
[20:17] <elf-pavlik> tpluskiewicz: new requests still need review, we could send email to mailing list to remind others about them
[20:17] <elf-pavlik> ... I have one UC related to #100 (IRI templates & operations)
[20:18] <elf-pavlik> markus: are you sure you talk about #100 ?
[20:18] <elf-pavlik> tpluskiewicz: #118
[20:18] <markus> https://github.com/HydraCG/Specifications/issues/118
[20:18] <elf-pavlik> ... they all stay linked
[20:18] <karol-szczepanski> q+
[20:18] * Zakim sees karol-szczepanski on the speaker queue
[20:19] <elf-pavlik> ... I'll prepare PR related to it
[20:19] <markus> zakim, ack karol-szczepanski
[20:19] <Zakim> I see no one on the speaker queue
[20:19] <elf-pavlik> karol-szczepanski: i was also thinking about it, and i also don't find it in current spec very clear how to handle such UCs
[20:19] <elf-pavlik> ... i'll let tpluskiewicz submit PR for that
[20:20] <elf-pavlik> markus: anyone plans to work on something? let's mention it so we avoid possible duplication of efforts
[20:21] <elf-pavlik> tpluskiewicz: I'll just focus on this one (related to #118)
[20:21] <elf-pavlik> markus: from my side I don't see anything to discuss, any proposals to add to today's agenda, or should we finish early
[20:22] <elf-pavlik> karol-szczepanski: I will take time in next 2 weeks to write more UCs, but I also want to think how we should use UCs
[20:22] <elf-pavlik> ... we could try to make some kind of roadmap for next couple of weeks
[20:22] <elf-pavlik> markus: I'd like to have some concrete proposals for changes in the spec, discuss them during telecons and vote on them
[20:23] <elf-pavlik> ... what would do you think karol-szczepanski ?
[20:23] <elf-pavlik> karol-szczepanski: adding more examples on the specification page
[20:23] <elf-pavlik> tpluskiewicz: we could make it the other way around, to link to UCs from the spec
[20:24] <elf-pavlik> q+
[20:24] * Zakim sees elf-pavlik on the speaker queue
[20:24] <elf-pavlik> ... keeping spec shorter
[20:24] <elf-pavlik> markus: you need to decide if it stands as normative or informative reference
[20:25] <elf-pavlik> everything normative needs to stay in the spec itself
[20:25] <elf-pavlik> tpluskiewicz: UCs act as informative (non-normative) references
[20:25] <elf-pavlik> markus: we should at lest publish them on HydraCG website
[20:25] <elf-pavlik> ... i can take Action item
[20:25] <markus> zakim, ack elf-pavlik
[20:25] <Zakim> I see no one on the speaker queue
[20:26] <markus> elf-pavlik: I noted some specs like LDP have separate use case documents
[20:26] <markus> elf-pavlik: That way use cases can be referenced without being included in the spec
[20:27] <markus> ... but just referenced from the spec
[20:27] <elf-pavlik> markus: fine if it acts just as additional (educational) material
[20:27] <elf-pavlik> markus: anything else we should discuss today ?
[20:27] * elf-pavlik IMO we can continue on github PRs
[20:28] <elf-pavlik> ... let's adjourn for today and finish early, i will use that time to review PR #116 and #117
[20:28] <elf-pavlik> markus: thank your everyone, let's meet again in 2 weeks
[20:30] <markus> zakim, list attendees
[20:30] <Zakim> As of this point the attendees have been elf-pavlik, karol-szczepanski, tpluskiewicz, markus
