[20:01] <Karol_Szczepanski> Meeting: Hydra W3C Community Group Conference Call
[20:01] <Karol_Szczepanski> Chair: Karol Szczepanski
[20:02] <Karol_Szczepanski> Agenda: https://www.w3.org/community/hydra/wiki/Conference_Calls#2019-01-14
[20:02] <Karol_Szczepanski> present+ Karol_Szczepanski
[20:02] <Karol_Szczepanski> present+ tpluskiewicz
[20:02] <Karol_Szczepanski> present+ lorenzo-tuned
[20:04] <Karol_Szczepanski> Scribe: Karol_Szczepanski
[20:05] <Karol_Szczepanski> Topic: Talk about the possibility of writing a statement of mission (Statute) for a possible OS organisation.
[20:06] <Karol_Szczepanski> lorenzo-tuned: beside activity of the development group, we may actually try to create an open source organization as a direct fcreation of the community group
[20:07] <Karol_Szczepanski> lorenzo-tuned: to communicate to the public what is hydra etc.
[20:07] <Karol_Szczepanski> lorenzo-tuned: list objectives would be a standard approach to start with
[20:08] <Karol_Szczepanski> lorenzo-tuned: in context of Google Summer of Code, peapole are asking on how they can know more about hydra and the community
[20:08] <Karol_Szczepanski> lorenzo-tuned: we would like to be more organized in a transparent manner
[20:09] <Karol_Szczepanski> lorenzo-tuned: so we can interact with other actors in the field, like companies interested using the draft or contributors
[20:09] <Karol_Szczepanski> lorenzo-tuned: the draft is linked on the agenda page
[20:09] <Karol_Szczepanski> https://github.com/HTTP-APIs/hydra-cg-statute/blob/master/DRAFT.md
[20:10] <Karol_Szczepanski> tpluskiewicz: I don't have anything to complain
[20:10] <Karol_Szczepanski> tpluskiewicz: I'm a bit sceptical about some of the points of the draft
[20:11] == mielvds [~8d86292a@public.cloak] has joined #hydra
[20:11] <Karol_Szczepanski> tpluskiewicz: I don't undestand the implications of going legal
[20:11] <Karol_Szczepanski> tpluskiewicz: we're community group under W3C
[20:11] <Karol_Szczepanski> tpluskiewicz: this should ha ve a meaning
[20:11] <Karol_Szczepanski> lorenzo-tuned: that's why I've asked for collaboration
[20:12] <Karol_Szczepanski> lorenzo-tuned: one of the reason, was we were asked by i.e. students or organizations
[20:12] <Karol_Szczepanski> lorenzo-tuned: we could receive donations, i.e. from Google
[20:12] <Karol_Szczepanski> lorenzo-tuned: based on the number of projects or students
[20:13] <Karol_Szczepanski> lorenzo-tuned: Python-Hydra was entitled a donation from an organization
[20:13] <Karol_Szczepanski> lorenzo-tuned: collecting these donations could contribute substantially to our activity
[20:15] <Karol_Szczepanski> tpluskiewicz: you say about student expenses or your expenses
[20:15] <Karol_Szczepanski> tpluskiewicz: related to hydra-ecosystem
[20:15] == rubenverborgh [~rubenverborgh@public.cloak] has joined #hydra
[20:16] <Karol_Szczepanski> tpluskiewicz: if we receive any money, it would be put on hydra community group shoulders
[20:16] <Karol_Szczepanski> tpluskiewicz: currently, HydraCG runs on either free infrastructure or those maintained by Markus
[20:17] <Karol_Szczepanski> tpluskiewicz: I don't feel any need to go that way
[20:18] <Karol_Szczepanski> lorenzo-tuned: students asks me to present this position to the chair - why we can't use the money we could obtain
[20:18] <Karol_Szczepanski> present+ mielvds
[20:18] <Karol_Szczepanski> present+ rubenverborgh
[20:22] <Karol_Szczepanski> Karol_Szczepanski: we don't know possible responsibilities of such a OS organization
[20:23] <Karol_Szczepanski> tpluskiewicz: when money are on the table, it's another story
[20:23] <Karol_Szczepanski> tpluskiewicz: we didn't start organization to obtain money for my another activyt due to huge effort and legal implications
[20:24] <Karol_Szczepanski> tpluskiewicz: I'd try asking Open API initiative for assistance or something
[20:26] <Karol_Szczepanski> ACTION: lorenzo-tuned will prepare a brief of advantages or disadvantages of starting an organization, i.e. responsibilities or benefits or legal requirements known to him
[20:26] * RRSAgent records action 1
[20:27] <lorenzo-tuned> https://www.gov.uk/unincorporated-associations
[20:28] <Karol_Szczepanski> Topic: Discuss relation between Hydra Core and TPF/LDF
[20:28] <Karol_Szczepanski> rubenverborgh: a brief of the history
[20:29] <Karol_Szczepanski> rubenverborgh: we've ben doing hypermedia driven apis for some time
[20:29] <Karol_Szczepanski> rubenverborgh: we wan't a client smart enough to query another apis
[20:30] <Karol_Szczepanski> rubenverborgh: it was Markus explaining I'd rather to have you within hydra to make it stronger
[20:30] <Karol_Szczepanski> rubenverborgh: we've been publishing TPF specs under hydra since then
[20:31] <Karol_Szczepanski> rubenverborgh: question: is there any point in having TPF under a hydra community group
[20:32] <Karol_Szczepanski> rubenverborgh: we're interested in having extensions to hydra rather than to influence hydra with our specs
[20:32] <Karol_Szczepanski> rubenverborgh: maybe we should discuss in person the future of the hypermedia
[20:34] <Karol_Szczepanski> Karol_Szczepanski: there was no intention in dropping other specs from hydracg
[20:36] <Karol_Szczepanski> mielvds: not sure on how many people are there
[20:37] <Karol_Szczepanski> tpluskiewicz: my suggestion is in force - to move TPF and other specs to separate github repos - this way the specs still can be under HydraCG with self-maintaining caopabilities of each team
[20:38] <Karol_Szczepanski> rubenverborgh: this was an initial intention
[20:38] <Karol_Szczepanski> rubenverborgh: it's a good start
[20:38] <Karol_Szczepanski> rubenverborgh: as for the issues, a few were closed due to inactivity
[20:39] <Karol_Szczepanski> tpluskiewicz: as for the issues, a few were closed due to inactivity'
[20:40] <Karol_Szczepanski> tpluskiewicz: some of the issues may require hydra spec changes, but that's Ok, once we come to agreement on the details
[20:42] <Karol_Szczepanski> rubenverborgh: I've been quite active at the beginning, later I've lost track due to various reasons
[20:43] <Karol_Szczepanski> rubenverborgh: we would like to extend an open invitation to have all the people to have a disussion (in person or virtual) on the future of hypermedia
[20:43] <Karol_Szczepanski> tpluskiewicz: I'd be happy to visit Ghent :)
[20:44] <Karol_Szczepanski> ACTION: rubenverborgh will provide a brief agenta of that discussion
[20:44] * RRSAgent records action 2
[20:46] <Karol_Szczepanski> ACTION: migration of the TPF repos to separate one within HydraCG
[20:46] * RRSAgent records action 3
[20:49] <Karol_Szczepanski> Karol_Szczepanski: 16 issues closed, 1 is already reopened, there is an attempt to close 12 issues with minor specchanges, there are ongoing PRs
[20:49] <Karol_Szczepanski> tpluskiewicz: as for the automation to generate minutes, there is a PR with possible changes to be made to the process
[20:50] <tpluskiewicz> https://github.com/HydraCG/Minutes/pull/2
[20:50] <Karol_Szczepanski> Topic: Discuss open Pull Requests
[20:52] <Karol_Szczepanski> tpluskiewicz: reviews where never formalized
[20:53] <Karol_Szczepanski> tpluskiewicz: it was mostly Markus' show within the spec
[20:53] <Karol_Szczepanski> tpluskiewicz: I'd make it more strict to have more people reviewing
[20:53] <Karol_Szczepanski> rubenverborgh: you can always assign me reviews
[20:54] <Karol_Szczepanski> mielvds: same here
[20:55] <Karol_Szczepanski> tpluskiewicz: how was it in the past when it was driven by mailing list and not a github
[20:55] <Karol_Szczepanski> tpluskiewicz: was there always a call for agreement in the past?
[20:55] <Karol_Szczepanski> tpluskiewicz: call for consensus
[20:56] <Karol_Szczepanski> tpluskiewicz: we could send via mailing list a call for consensus pointing to PR's
[20:58] <Karol_Szczepanski> ACTION: tpluskiewicz: describe on how to proceed with PR's
[20:58] * RRSAgent records action 4