[19:59] <markus> Agenda: https://www.w3.org/community/hydra/wiki/Conference_Calls
[19:59] <markus> Scribe: markus
[20:00] <markus> present+ markus
[20:00] <markus> present+ Karol_Szczepanski
[20:08] == xadahiya [~2be518bb@public.cloak] has joined #hydra
[20:11] == sandeep [~sandeep@public.cloak] has joined #hydra
[20:12] <sandeep> hello everyone!
[20:13] <markus> markus: Hi
[20:13] <markus> markus: Please join the call at https://www.uberconference.com/hydra-cg
[20:19] <markus> markus: sandeep, your microphone is making a lot of noise
[20:19] <markus> ... sounds like a motorcycle.. unfortunately we can barely hear your voice
[20:19] <xadahiya> can't hear anything
[20:23] <markus> Topic: Google Summer of Code
[20:23] <xadahiya> https://github.com/HTTP-APIs/hydrus/blob/master/hydrus/parser/openapi_parser.py
[20:24] <xadahiya> sandeep check your microphone
[20:26] <sandeep> So, Can I use screenshare for presenting the demo of work?
[20:26] <xadahiya> yes you can but your microphone is making a lot of noice
[20:26] <xadahiya> noise*
[20:27] <markus> markus: Sandeep, we decided to postpone the demo to the next telecon
[20:27] <markus> ... as we can't hear you at all
[20:27] <markus> Topic: Next goals
[20:27] <markus> Karol: update spec
[20:27] <sandeep> yeah I will try my best next time.
[20:28] <sandeep> I don't know why is this noise.
[20:28] <markus> Karol: try to reach feature parity with other API description formats
[20:28] <markus> ... some stuff is already possible but spec and examples are often vague
[20:29] <markus> ... we should also update the client and stop using stuff that's not in the spec
[20:29] <markus> markus: how would you structure this work?
[20:29] <markus> karol: don't know
[20:29] <markus> ... the major thing that's missing IMO is request shape we discussed earlier this year
[20:30] <markus> markus: right. the other thing we should finish is the work Pavlik started around actions
[20:31] <markus> ... if I understand you correctly your highest priority would be to update the spec, right? Not updating Heracles etc.
[20:32] <markus> Karol: yes, I think we reached a point where we need to work on the spec itself
[20:33] <markus> markus: how should we approach that best?
[20:33] <markus> Karol: I'll focus on the Angular Hydra console for now
[20:34] <markus> ... I would like to have a complete example
[20:35] <markus> ... we've got a client I think now we should extend that to a full demo that shows what Hydra can do
[20:35] <markus> ... this might then also help us to recruit more people
